Let's stand together and we're going to read one more time from the book of Philippians, but we're going to read a different passage.
All right.
And so let's turn back to Philippians chapter three.
I told you this morning I preached part one.
I'm going to preach part two now and we're going to have brother Williams is going to sing for us right after I read this passage.
And then we'll get right into the message for tonight.
Philippians chapter three, I read already verses 12, 13, 14.
I'd like to read it this time, verses 15 and 16, if you would, follow with me, verses 15 and 16.
We've already read about pressing toward the mark, reaching forth.
So in verse 15, we read, let us therefore, now can I just tell you, the Christian life was not designed for someone to try to live it on their own.
Paul is not just giving his testimony, he's giving a challenge.
I did not just give to you a testimony of what I'd like to do.
If we don't all get involved, none of it happens.
Let us therefore.
Paul said, I'm striving to get it.
Paul said, I'm reaching forth and you could imagine somebody to fill up by going, wonderful.
Paul's zeal is just wonderful.
But Paul wasn't saying that just for himself.
He was saying, let all of us therefore.
All of us, let us therefore.
Let us therefore, as many as be perfect, be thus minded speaking about being saved.
And if in anything ye be otherwise minded, God shall reveal even this unto you.
Nevertheless, where to we have already attained, let us walk by the same rule.
Let us mind the same thing, verse 17, brethren, be followers together of me,
and mark them which walks so as you have us for an ensemble.
Let us pray.
Father, in these final moments, as we look to this book of Philippians, I pray that you would bring this day together in a grand climax, Lord, in a wonderful time of dedication that we all together would reach forth and that we would see what you can do when many hundreds of people are thirsting, hungry for you.
In Jesus' name I pray, amen.
You may be seated.
This morning we learn from God's word that we want to be a church that is reaching forth, going forth into the new year.
And tonight we stand at the starting line of this new year.
We stand looking ahead, asking God to work and to bless.
Now the Bible speaks about these athletic opportunities in the spiritual realm.
1 Corinthians 9 and 24.
No you not that they which run in a race run all, but one receive at the prize.
So run that you may obtain.
And every man that strived for the mastery is temperate in all things.
Now they do it to obtain a corruptible crown, but we an incorruptible.
In this life we almost decide and determine will I live only for the corruptible things or for the incorruptible.
There's nothing wrong with going to the gym.
There's nothing wrong with having, you know, a muscular body.
But I hate to tell you tonight that's a temporal thing.
Nothing wrong with having something new and something nice, but all the things of this world are corruptible.
But those things that are done for Jesus are incorruptible.
And we're reaching forth this year for the incorruptible things.
The National Football League is buying now for placement and hopefully into the Super Bowl and the college football championship and all of these are worldly pursuits and I want to tell you something tonight that in heaven those things are not exciting.
The angels yawn when it comes to the NFL Super Bowl.
But when one soul is saved, there's rejoicing in heaven.
I propose that we ought to then live our lives with eternity in mind.
We ought to live our lives with what causes rejoicing in heaven.
And I think all of us would agree that the spiritual goals matter more.
What does it profit a man if he gains the whole world and loses his own soul?
And certainly there's an application to salvation in that verse, but also to our spiritual well-being.
What does it profit someone?
If in working all their overtime or if in accomplishing all these goals, they lose their heart for God.
And so we want to reach forth, but we want to reach forth for that which is eternal.
Now how do we do that?
Let me give you a few thoughts as Paul continues this challenge.
First tonight, I believe as a church that we must share a common goal.
that we share a common goal.
Notice in verse 15, the Bible says, let us therefore as many as be perfect be thus minded.
This goal, this challenge about reaching forth, this is for the saved tonight.
This is for those of us that have been born again.
It says as many as B as are perfect.
That word perfect means finished or complete.
And by the way, we are all complete in Jesus Christ.
So he is saying that we together share this common goal, that we are the saved and that our goal then is Christ likenessed Romans 8 and 29 being conformed to the image of the Lord Jesus.
And so this challenge that is being given here in Philippians 3, it's not just the power of positive thinking for unsaved people.
It's not corporate training, but this is something specifically to those that are perfect, to those that are in Christ.
It is for the saved.
We share a common goal as saved people.
All of us need to be reaching forth for the incorruptible crown of Jesus Christ, pressing toward the mark of the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus.
This is a challenge to the saved.
tonight, and hopefully that is all of us in this room.
It is also a challenge for the future.
You'll notice the Bible says, let us therefore, and whenever you see the word therefore in the Bible, you look to see what it's there for.
You look to the previous verses.
And he is speaking, of course, of verse 13, forgetting those things which are behind and reaching forth under those things which are before.
And so our common goal is 2020.
Our common goal is that we want to start well.
We want to finish well.
We want to keep Jesus in our hearts and minds all through the year 2020.
Hey, I don't think you're here on a Sunday night because you could care less about 2020.
I think every Christian in this room ought to say tonight and believes in their heart tonight that we would like to be closer to Jesus 12 months from now than we are right now.
It's a common goal.
All of us should desire.
May I say that when memories of the past supersede our vision for the future, then our doom is nigh.
It's one thing to say, I got saved and I was faithful back then.
We've seen a lot of buildings built.
We've seen a lot of lives change.
It's another thing to say.
I'm reaching forth.
I want to see another child saved.
I want to see my child's life touched and changed.
I want to see God work in 2020 like he did in years gone by.
And that's why our ministry path is so important and it really reflects the fact that we're reaching forth because we want our worship to be reaching out for God and engaging for those that would visit our community groups to bring them in to fellowship in the connection groups.
And one of the things I have in my mind as soon as we get the kids city building is to expand and remodel our coffee shop to give more area for relationship and maybe emphasize the retail just a little less in the relationship.
and the fellowship just a little more.
And let this place continue to be a place of rest and fellowship for people who want to know God and encourage each other in the Lord.
And so we move from worship to community to commitment or discipleship and service and outreach.
And all of this says, everything that I've said tonight is that we are a church reaching forth into the future and pressing toward Christ and wanting to know Him and please Him and live for Him.
And I said this this morning,
But I believe we ought to do this with great passion.
Paul the Apostle used this phrase in verse number 14, he said, I press toward the mark.
Would you say that with me?
I press toward the mark.
One more time, I... You say, well, I'm pressing for this amount of weight, and I'm pressing for this promotion, and I'm pressing for this college degree.
But are you pressing to know Jesus Christ?
Is it a passion in your heart?
Say, well, I need to know why that's so important.
As I said this morning, if you know the who, you'll know the why.
Jesus is the who.
And you'll want to know Him more and draw closer to Him.
C.S.
Lewis once wrote, aim at heaven and you will get earth thrown in.
Aim at earth and you'll get neither.
Have a heavenly mindset, pressing toward the mark.
For the believer, we have been made perfect in Jesus Christ
Our salvation is complete, but this passage is not speaking merely about salvation, it's speaking about
maturation.
It's speaking about growth in the Lord.
Wiersby says, Paul is not talking about salvation, but about sanctification, growth, and progress in the Christian line.
He says, I want to continue growing.
I want to know him more.
I'm pressing toward the mark of the prize of the high calling of God.
And what I'm saying is we have a common goal tonight.
And we're all here with a goal of spiritual maturity and knowing Christ in a deeper way and loving Christ and falling in love with Christ in this year.
And that ought to be our prayer no matter
our age or our station in life, that all of us would draw closer to Jesus.
That's our common goal.
But not only do we share a common goal, I want you to notice, secondly, we serve a convicting God.
We serve a convicting God.
Now I want you to see something very interesting, verse 15, it says, let us therefore, as many as be perfect, be thus minded.
Now let's just stop right here.
How many of you would say, pastor, it would be a wonderful thing
If every member of Lancaster Baptist Church, as many as are perfect in Jesus Christ, would be thus minded.
In other words, that every member of this church was passionately pursuing Christ.
That would be revival.
That would be awesome.
How many of you agree with me on that?
Imagine that.
Thousands of people pursuing Christ.
I mean, there are people here tonight checking their phone while I preach.
Sometimes people can't get their heads up to look.
They're disinterested.
Their mind is controlled by social media, rock music, or who knows what else is going on.
So what I'm saying is to get thousands of people with a singular passion for Christ, that might take like a miracle.
But how many of you would say be a wonderful thing indeed?
Now here's the dilemma.
It does not always happen that way.
And you'll notice it because you're human.
You'll notice it because you attend the class and you might see someone's up or down.
By the way, how many have noticed that it's easier to notice someone else's fault than it is your own fault?
Sort of human nature, I guess.
And that's why I want you to see this point.
We serve a convicting God.
Now we share a common goal.
We all want to grow closer to Christ.
That should be our common goal.
But what about when that doesn't happen?
What about when someone doesn't pay attention or someone has gone wayward or somebody isn't living the way you think they should live?
And let me just say this very quickly.
Our greatest concern tonight should not be the other member in the church.
Our greatest concern should be ourself.
Now, as a pastor, I think I have a calling and I have a burden that's broader in the sense of that calling.
But even my number one concern is myself being right with God.
That's why I mentioned earlier about the song, Holy Spirit, you are welcome here and let us lift up and glorify you because there are so many different pressures that can come even on a pastor thinking about this, worrying about this.
What does this one think?
What does that one think?
And sometimes I just have to say, time out, who cares?
All I care about right now is that I am thoroughly right with God myself.
Don't start this year with the idea of everybody ought to be thus minded.
They ought to think the way I think about this verse and that verse and this position and that conviction and be that way.
It would be a beautiful thing if that happens and when we get to heaven, that's what it's going to be.
But until then, I want to remind you of this principle.
We serve a convicting God.
Now, notice what it says here.
If in anything ye be otherwise minded,
God shall reveal even this unto you."
So we see, first of all, that in the context of the local church, sometimes there are airing believers.
They are otherwise minded.
In other words, we may have the mind of Christ on something.
The Scripture might be clear on something, but then there's these people that are otherwise minded.
They're not thinking about the sermon.
They're thinking about something else that they want to do.
And sometimes they'll try to spiritualize, well, you know, I saw a hypocrite in the church, whatever, you'll hear all kinds of excuses.
But the fact is the fruit doesn't signify the growth.
And so suddenly there might be someone that is otherwise minded in this context, meaning they're not mindful of following Christ passionately.
They're more passionate about other stuff.
That sometimes happens.
When that happens, we can have a range of emotions.
You could have the range of a broken heart.
If it's your child, it would break your heart.
You could have the emotion of a burdened heart.
God forbid you could have the emotion of a judgmental heart.
But we have emotions and we have thoughts and sometimes people say things.
What I want you to see here is that when there is an airing believer that there is also an engaging God who is not
up in heaven blind to all of it.
He's very well aware.
Oswald Sanders said, most Bible characters meet with failure and then survived.
Even when the failure was immense, those who rebounded refused to lie in the dust and bemoan their tragedy.
In fact, their failure and repentance led to a greater conception of God's grace.
In other words, our prayer should be that when someone airs, when someone is otherwise minded, we should pray that they will become right with God, that they will be restored into fellowship.
but we should also remember that when there is an airing member, there is an engaging God.
So notice in verse 15, it says, God shall reveal even this unto you.
Let's say that together.
God shall reveal even this unto you.
You see, now this is very important because real conviction comes from God.
Is everybody with me?
Real conviction.
So when someone is airing,
We get burdened, we get worried, we want to say something.
Sometimes people might say something to a friend, we should not do that, it's called gossip.
But when someone is airing, what the Bible says is that God will reveal that to them.
Now, you as a wife can say something to your husband or you as a church member say something to another church member and from time to time it may be your place, maybe you're discipling them, maybe you're married to them, whatever the case might be.
But the fact of the matter is that real true conviction will always come from God.
And normally what we do in a Pharisaical manner, whether we intend it or not, what we give is guilt.
And what guilt does, it builds resentment and it drives people farther away.
And that's kind of the dilemma of a pastor because as a shepherd, sometimes when I see someone that is otherwise minded, the Lord will put on my heart, it's time to talk to them.
Their spirit has changed.
There's a difficulty, there's a problem in their life.
And it's always risk reward.
The reward is, if they say,
Pastor, thanks for caring enough to talk to me.
And you're right.
And I've been having this struggle.
And I just, I go home and I say, praise God, a brother has been one.
The risk is that someone says, get your hands off me.
What are you trying to tell me what to do?
You preachers think you rule the whole world and you're just trying to control my life.
So it's a risk reward thing.
But the last thing that a parent, a pastor, anyone should want to do is to put guilt on someone when there is a far better way of having it dealt with, and that is when God deals with it.
And I want you to remember that.
Real conviction is from the Holy Spirit.
John 16, 7, and 8, the Bible says, when the Holy Spirit comes, he'll reprove the world of sin, of righteousness, and of judgment.
Now, why am I preaching this on the first vision night?
Why would I share this message?
I share it in part because we are ministering in a post-biblical era in America.
We are not in an era
when there are people that are coming into church and there's just this natural momentum or submissiveness or heart of people to say, what do I do next?
And how can I grow in the Lord?
And boy, that was great.
And we are living in an era where people are slower in their trust of authority, much less believing the Bible to be the Word of God.
We're living in an era where people are bringing a tremendous amount of baggage.
And sometimes, and I don't say this to be mean, but their decor and their mannerisms and their vocabulary and their life is very, very
different and sometimes they are otherwise minded.
Could I say it that way?
But the point is that if they're on that path, I spoke about a moment ago and if they're beginning to learn how to worship and they're getting into a community and they're starting into discipleship, what they need at Lancaster Baptist Church is they need a church that will allow God to correct them while we love them to the Lord Jesus Christ.
Now, I'm not speaking about sin.
I'm not speaking about being patient with immorality or being patient with some kind of
open sin.
I'm not advocating to give license to a backsliding Christian and to say, oh, they're off into that.
I guess it's okay.
Go ahead and skip church and party and do all these.
I'm not speaking about that type of a scenario, but I'm speaking about the fact that the fundamental sense of ministry should be this, that there is a God in heaven who can do a better job of changing your husband than you can.
And there's a God in heaven who can help that new Christian.
And if our job perception is that we are here to correct every single person that comes through the door, then we're going to hinder the opportunity that the Holy Spirit can have in changing someone's heart.
And so we want to continually practice individual soul liberty.
We want to recognize that every individual is at a different place.
Now, I've taught that.
It's one of the Baptist's distinctive individual soul liberty.
It's in the Bible.
Daniel 1, 8.
Daniel purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself with a portion of the king's meat.
Now, some of you have raised teenagers and you know what I'm talking about.
You can tell them how to dress.
You can tell them what to do.
And they'll say, OK, for a while.
But they will come a point when if it was not in their heart to walk in a biblical fashion or according to the way you taught them, they're going to do it however they want.
How much better
Is it to have a Daniel who purposes in his own heart to live for the Lord Jesus Christ?
Now that's individual soul liberty.
We read in Acts chapter 5 and verse 29, Peter and the other apostles answered and said, we ought to obey God rather than men.
I'd like you to turn in your Bibles quickly to Romans chapter 14 and verse 10.
Because I just want to underscore quickly that as we enter into this year, we have a common goal, that's Christ.
We have a correcting God.
who will take care of a lot of the problems and conviction that is needed in helping people to see if they're becoming a stumbling block or if they're thinking otherwise.
But until then, we as a church need to understand Romans 14 and verse 10, why does thou judge thy brother?
Or why does thou set it not thy brother?
For we shall all stand before the judgment seat of Christ.
For it is written as I live, saith the Lord, every knee shall bow to me, and every tongue shall confess to God.
So then every one of us shall give account of himself to God.
Now let's just stop and think about this for a moment.
That person that's thinking otherwise, you may have a unique role and maybe you should talk to them.
But the truth of the matter is that all of us are going to stand before the Lord Jesus Christ someday.
And that we need to be close and we need to be careful rather regarding
Verse 10, judging a brother, we need to remember that they will stand before the Lord, let us not therefore judge one another anymore, but let us judge this rather that no man put a stumbling block or an occasion to fall in his brother's way.
I don't have time to develop the whole concept of the stumbling block, but that stumbling block could be, yes, someone thinking otherwise.
It could also be the way that we deal with someone thinking otherwise.
But what I want us to realize is that our responsibility is not to be the Baptist police as much as it is to be the Baptist prayer warrior and to recognize that there is a God in heaven who will convict hearts and touch hearts and he will add to the church and he will remove from the church and we need to let God be God because we share a common goal and our common goal is not to be the chief Pharisee.
Our common goal is to say, Lord, it's me, it's me, it's me standing in the need of revival.
And as I'm doing that, I serve a convicting God so that if the guy next to me is thinking otherwise, God can take care of that and deal with that in his own way and in his time.
And so we oughta thank God for that, that he loves this church more than we do and he will deal with needs as those needs arise.
And yes, sometimes he'll call upon the under shepherd and he'll burden my heart.
I understand that.
But let's Lancaster Baptist Church be a place where someone who's trying to figure it out, they're not being rebellious.
They're not against God.
They're not against the church.
They just growing.
They don't understand that this is a place of health where they can grow into the image of Jesus Christ.
Remember that everyone's at a different part of that ministry path.
They're just growing at different areas and spaces and times along the way.
So we share a common goal and our goal is Jesus Christ.
We serve a convicting God so that when someone gets their eyes off of Jesus Christ, God, the Bible says, in verse number 15, we'll reveal that unto them.
Now let me ask you a quick question.
We're almost done.
How many of you can say, there have been lots of times in my life when God revealed to me that I was thinking otherwise?
How many of you?
Lots of times in my life when God revealed to me.
And how many of you would say this?
It's very powerful when God reveals it to me as opposed to when my wife reveals it to me.
Right?
Now I hope that you are giving me as your pastor some leeway and some in road and that I can be a helper, as Paul said, a helper of your joy.
But there are people that won't even hear it from their pastor.
But when God convicts your heart, don't you call that guilt?
I've seen some people say, I'm just putting a guilt trip on me.
No, no, no, no.
Don't you relabel God's loving conviction as guilt?
When God's trying to get you to change in an area,
be quick to follow his wonderful loving voice.
So we share a common goal.
We serve a convicting God.
And then notice finally, we study a convincing guide.
How are we going to get from here to 2021?
Well, notice verse 16.
Nevertheless, where to we have already attained?
Let us walk by the same rule.
Let us mind the same thing.
Now you've heard this before.
The word rule speaks of the canon of scripture.
The Scripture was canonized.
It was kept in the ark of the covenant, all the Old Testament books.
The 27 books of the New Testament were added to the canon.
It's called a rule, the rule of Scripture.
It is our guide, and we are challenged to walk according to the same rule.
As we think of the same rule, we recognize that to accomplish these spiritual goals, then daily we must be following the same spiritual guide.
That is the word of God.
The Bible teaches us study to show thyself approved unto God, a workman that needed not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth.
And so we see the word rule and we're reminded of the veracity of Scripture, the fact that the law was placed into the Ark of the Covenant with Aaron's law that butted,
that each of the books of the New Testament were written by eyewitnesses of the resurrected Christ, that those books were placed into the canon of Scripture as they followed after and were tested by holy men of God, and they became a part of the rule, the Word of God.
Psalm 119 verse 160, the I Word is true from the beginning, and every one of the righteous judgments endureth forever.
and the principles that we have taught and believed here since 1986 have all come from the word of God, which is our guide from the preserve word of God that he has given to us and kept for us.
And he's given us his words, I believe, in the King James Version of the Bible.
We have the truth of God's word preserved for us in our hands tonight, and many have died that we might have it.
as we have it tonight.
We believe the Bible is the inspired Word of God.
We believe that Jesus Christ is the only atonement for sin.
We believe that the Holy Spirit is the third person of the Godhead and that salvation by grace and through faith is taught to us in the Scripture.
And we could go on and on.
Where do we derive these beliefs from?
From the rule, from the guide.
from the Bible and the Word of God and the letter B and the letter Baptist as we give the acrostic stands for Bible authority in all matters of faith and practice.
What we believe is determined by the very Word of God.
And we ought to thank God tonight that as we enter this year that we have a reliable guide in His Word.
And I say to you tonight, the Bible is an equalizer.
It doesn't matter if you're a baby boomer or a millennial or a Gen X.
People speaks to all of us in the same way.
Every single one of us, the Bible teaches us 2 Timothy 3 and 14, continue down the things which Thou hast learned and minasured of, knowing of whom Thou hast learned them, and that from a child Thou hast known the Holy Scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation.
Hey, we don't have a Bible for the juniors and a Bible for the millennials and a Bible for the ladies and a Bible for the men.
We have one Bible.
It's a great equalizer for the entire church.
All of us come to the same word.
The Bible's a great equalizer.
The Bible is a stabilizer.
We read, prove all things, prove everything, hold fast to that which is good.
The Bible is a multiplier.
When the Bible is preached and taught, people's lives grow and the church will grow.
So the veracity of the Scripture is given and then there is the victory of the Scripture.
Notice what it says in verse 16.
Let us walk by the same rule.
Let us mind the same thing.
Now look right here.
If some people were as faithful to the Word of God this year as they intend to be at the gym, their whole life would change.
The reason that you do not grow spiritually, the reason that you're bored with the Bible is because you are not minding the Bible.
You're not putting your mind to it.
You put your mind to how many reps you're going to do in an exercise, or how many laps you're going to run, or how many miles you're going to ride.
You've got your mind on that.
It's on your watch.
It's on your phone.
And then you think about it.
You've got to hydrate for it.
You've got to be ready for it.
But if you're not minding the Word of God, there will be no growth in your life spiritually this year.
Victory only comes when we're applying the principles of the Word of God to our life.
The erosion of character usually begins with neglect.
We stop reading the Word of God or worshiping with God's people or making time to meditate and pray.
And your character begins to erode.
And normally people backslide together.
And you may not see the terrible tragedy of that for some years, but after pastoring for decades, I can tell you.
When someone who once was minding the Word of God turns from it, it never ends well.
It never ends well.
I love what Dale Moody said.
A Bible that is falling apart usually belongs to someone who is not.
Can I just have your attention for a moment?
Could I encourage you this year to do whatever it takes to be mindful of the Scriptures?
What's it going to take?
I mean, someone says, well, I know what I have to do to get ready for my workout.
I have to have my clothes all laid out.
I have to have my water bottle, everything, my alarm clock, because why?
Because that's a priority in your life.
What's it going to take to make God a priority?
I read an amazing book this past week entitled Atomic Habits.
Just amazing.
And it's a secular book.
It's got some psychology in it.
But one of the principles they talked about was stacking habits.
So in other words, take something that you already do every day and take that new thing that you want to begin doing and identify the two together.
And so I began to think about, well, what are some things?
And Terry and I, we pray together every morning and we often read the word, but I wanted that to get deeper this year.
This is such a little thing.
So I said, well, what are some things that I like to do every day?
And one of them came right to my mind.
I like to eat every day.
Just like a bear, you know, you wake up hungry.
So I found the biggest Bible in our house.
And I asked my wife's permission first because I've learned after 39 years of marriage, I can't just decorate the place she has to sign off.
And I said, would you mind if I put the biggest Bible in the house on our kitchen table?
She said, no, that'd be great.
You say, are you that dumb pastor that you might forget sometimes to read the Bible with Terry if you don't have the biggest Bible in the house on your kitchen table?
I'm actually that dumb and sometimes that busy.
Why don't you figure out a way to stack the right habits into your life so that you'll mind the rule of God's Word?
How are we going to reach forth if we don't have reminders to pray and reminders for the Word of God?
How are we going to reach forth if we don't have godly habits supporting those godly goals?
I know how I would encourage you.
There is victory in the applied Word of God.
Our goal is set.
Jesus is the goal.
Our God will convict.
We don't have to try to play the Holy Spirit for everyone.
And if there's no sin in the church, you have a pastor who will deal with that.
Sometimes I don't know as quickly as you or something of that nature, but we're very sensitive to the fact this is a church that we want the Holy Spirit to have freedom.
Amen.
But God will convict.
He'll do a better job than us.
And our guide, the word of God, is reliable.
Now as I close, I want to read this final verse here, verse 17.
Brethren, be followers together of me and mark them which walks so as you have us for an example.
Now I cannot explain this.
I think every pastor at times feels unworthy.
But the fact is that God humanly speaking, speaking,
has given an under shepherd to his church.
He has placed into the church spiritual leadership.
There are requirements for the pastor, 1 Timothy 3, Titus 1.
Nevertheless, human leadership under shepherds, under the chief shepherd, Jesus Christ.
And it's interesting because the Bible says in this passage
Brethren, be followers together of me.
1 Corinthians 11, 1.
Be followers of me even as I am of Christ.
You say, well, that was Paul.
He was an apostle, but he was a man.
And in the book of Hebrews, I believe he wrote the same regarding those who taught the Word of God.
Now, share this with you tonight because I have endeavored to lay out a vision tonight, to lay some direction out before the church, to challenge you.
Hey, we all have a common goal, Christ.
We all have a convicting God.
We all need to be in the Word of God and let's build the kids' city building, whatever the case might be that we've shared tonight.
And frankly, there's always a tension between where we need to go and where we are because we like our comfort zone and getting out of the comfort zone and into the vision zone.
Normally there's a tension with that.
And I don't think it's really that easy and I don't know of many pastors who for 34 years have cast
strong vision who have over the course of 34 years averaged a minimum of $2 million a year of construction and a minimum of 450 new members added through baptism in the last 20 years.
And the numbers go on.
And there's always sort of that tension of, okay, Lord, it's January, we're going to step out of our comfort again and we're going to go knock on some more doors and preach some more sermons and tell lots of people that they're sinners.
That's my job.
And I'm going to tell those same people that I just told our centers to do more than tithe because we're going to build a building.
Yay, what a job.
And you just go, what I do is not unless God gets in the middle of it.
And I counted a great privilege to do what I do.
I'm not complaining.
God has called me to get myself out of the comfort zone and try to get others out so that we can get into the vision zone and do something great for God.
And 34 years ago, I stood on a Sunday night before nine people.
And I think it was, I think they had had 12 or 13 that had voted for me to be the pastor.
But on my first Sunday, on that night, we had nine.
And I don't know how long the sermon lasted.
It was way shorter than right now.
Some of you wish you would have been here back then.
You could average then and now and it'd be great, right, Brother Stoner?
And I remember what I preached.
It was Philippians 1, 27.
But I remember saying this.
I said, folks, I know I'm young.
And I said, I know I'm going to make a lot of mistakes.
And I was and I have.
I said, but I really would like to ask you if you could just help me and follow me as I'm trying to be a pastor.
And I said, as long as I am doctrinally straight and morally pure, that's the way I said it, I'm going to ask you to follow me as your pastor.
And by the way, by the grace of God,
for 34 years, the doctrine hasn't changed.
God's kept His hand on my life, and wonderful godly people have helped me and followed me in the ministry of Lancaster Baptist Church.
And maybe I'm being overly vulnerable, but let me simply say, if it's just my vision, nothing happens.
And Paul knew that himself, and so he said, brethren, be followers together of me.
Say, well, the church has grown.
Brother Williams has a beard now.
I saw that this morning.
So he didn't used to have guys with beards.
I know.
They just started having them.
I'm just telling you.
Say, well, it used to bother you.
It just doesn't bother me as much anymore.
So anyway, we have a pastor that has stuff that doesn't bother him as much anymore.
What's wrong with him?
We want a bothered pastor.
Folks, I can only get bothered about so much and there's so much in this world to get bothered about these days.
As long as I'm doctrinally straight and morally pure, I don't think a beard, and I wasn't planning to speak about beards, but it's so fun to speak about them.
I don't think a beard is a doctrinal thing.
Brethren, be followers together of me as I follow Christ.
You have done that and have been such a blessing.
But can I say to you, in this social media era where there are so many voices, and so many of you get that little dopamine rush to get a like or to give a like, and so many of you have a stronger relationship with an internet personality or blogger,
growing and growing and growing, or a Youtuber or a this or or that.
Some of you must intentionally say, you know what, I've got to go back to first century Christianity when it looked like this.
Lydia, the jailer and the demon possessed girl became a church and they had a pastor and he wasn't God and he wasn't Christ and we don't confess our sins to the pastor.
But he was leading them in the ways of Christ.
And so I got to get back to this model of the primary relationship is my relationship with Christ and my relationship with the local church.
Because if you're going to have many shepherds that you shop, you can't really follow the pastor who's trying to give the vision tonight.
And I haven't been checking your history feeds.
But I'm just advocating for this simple formula tonight.
that we all have a common goal, we all have a convicting God, we all have a convincing Bible.
But you also have an under shepherd.
And I'm still here 34 years later trying to lead.
But there's a lot more voices out there than there used to be.
It's just a different time of leadership.
It's a completely different landscape than I started when I was 24 years old.
There wasn't even an internet when I started.
So it's your choice.
I'm making the choice to push off the dock of the bay and go out into the deep waters so that we can do something great for children and reach more homes and more souls for Christ.
And it's your choice to say, as He follows Christ, I'm with that guy.
And together, we're going to get something great done for our God.
We're going to follow Him.
Brethren, be followers together of me and mark them which follow so as you have us for an ensemble.
May we be a people going after Christ like the Apostle Paul did.
May we be a people following God's simple pattern in a day when Satan tries to so cause us to hear so many voices and go so many ways.
May we be striving together for the faith of the gospel.